home of John Laquette in California.
Let me, before I go on.
An adrenaline that begins in me when I'm searching for something or there's something out there that I have a yin for that it becomes fairly all-encompassing.
Most of the stuff that I collect is not in any way unique.
Most of it is not phenomenally rare because it is modern so there's still a lot of
I would think a lot of examples of the work around.
Do you have any inscribed things?
Yes.
Yes, I have.
I guess a lot of the Samuel Beckett that I own was inscribed or signed specifically.
A lot of it to this particular collection that I just acquired to Jack McGowan's daughter.
Jack McGowan is an actor.
who, when Beckett saw him, says he has the face of every character ever written.
And he was one of the best interpreters of Beckett that ever lived.
Well, those are great association copies as well.
And a lot of these are to his daughter, Tara McGowan.
When Jack died, the story goes that occasionally Beckett would produce an extremely limited edition of one of his works and much of the proceeds he would give to Jack's widow to help her along.
and Tara was running around the theaters when they were working together, and so a lot of the books are inscribed to her.
This is not an inconsiderable collection.
This is a very important collection.
I suppose there's, I guess, maybe about 800 or 900 titles in it.
You acquired an 800 to 900 title collection.
A lot of it is criticism.
I would say about 300 or 400 of the books are criticisms of Beckett by the scholars that have studied it, Ruby Cone and John Fletcher,
all the men that wrote about him and the absurdist movement altogether.
So the fellow that I bought it from, although I don't know him personally, any reference in a book that was about Beckett, even though the book was not exclusively about Sam.
Oh, yeah, that would make it like a B or C item.
Yes, right.
And some of it, again, some of it is books of Mexican poetry that Beckett himself translated for publication.
This sounds like a pretty comprehensive collection.
Now, this is interesting because when we chatted briefly on the phone,
You mentioned that you first became a collector seven or eight years ago.
You were an aspiring actor, apparently, and as you told it, you were doing Ham and Endgame, I guess.
I'm telling the story.
Maybe you can tell the story for me.
I've read Beckett all my life, and at least from the time I was about 14, I think I was introduced to Beckett by a teacher that I had, a brother, actually, a Holy Cross brother.
in New Orleans, who turned me on to, I think, Waiting for Godot, and fell in love with the work, so I've always read him.
And when I had the opportunity to do the play Endgame, I was in a bookstore.
It wasn't actually a bookstore.
It sold seashells in Venice, California.
But in the back, there was this little bookshelf with some titles on it.
And one of them was this 16-volume
collection of Grove Press put out in 1970 of Beckett's collected works and was called, although it was single volumes of all the books that they had up to that point of his.
And there were two editions of it.
There was the regular trade edition with covers and then a specially bound edition signed by Beckett.
One volume of the 16 was signed, which was Godot, signed by me, of 200 copies, I think.
like $400, a lot of money.
So the other one was like $125, $150 for the 16 volumes unsigned.
And I bit my tongue and paid this money for these books.
And it gave me such a wonderful feeling of knowing that in one fell swoop I had gotten all of these books of his that were in a particular edition that I was going to be opening in the play the next couple of days.
It just gave me this real feeling of fulfillment
And shortly after that, I got this job that I'm still doing as of today, this television series.
And so I thought, why not buy a few more of his books?
At that point, at that moment, however, you were a collector.
Yes.
And did you realize that?
I think that probably in the back of my mind, although I couldn't form it solidly, I thought to myself, this would be a nice thing to be able to do, to acquire
first editions of the authors that I loved to read because at that time most of the stuff that I read as a teenager was no longer available once you bought a pulp paperback of Henry Miller or Samuel Beckett or Robinson Jeffers or T.S.
Eliot, those guys that I liked to read.
And so I would...
go into bookstores and not really have any knowledge, and most bookstores were like Doubleday, or I didn't know where, if there were these actual stores that sold just these little first edition things.
But slowly I became aware of a couple of stores in Los Angeles, and also just prior to 1982, I became aware of a writer, a California writer, named Charles Bukowski, who is, are you familiar with Bukowski?
Okay, so I started reading him a few years prior to that and walked into, I accidentally, I think, walked into this little bookstore in Las Palmas Avenue in Hollywood called Baroque Books, run by a man named Stadolsky, Red Stadolsky.
We heard him mention this morning.
Oh, you did?
Yeah.
And his store was replete with first edition Charles Bukowski, as well as Faulkner.
He has a big Faulkner collection, Henry Miller.
pictures of he and Miller on the wall together, and he and Bukowski on the wall together.
And so I bought a couple of Charles Bukowski first editions, just the first trade editions, you know, they're 30 bucks, 25 bucks, 30 bucks, whatever they were.
They are.
And slowly, as I got more disposable income,
but the idea of just owning these authors became more and more exciting to me so slowly I started going to book fairs around the country when I would be off working in a movie job I would find stores in the town getting information from Red I think by this time I had become aware of George Houlay and started hanging around his own shop Sibilsky Brooklyn Red I think is the full title of his nickname I'm quite sure
I found a book by Robert Wilson called Modern Book Collecting that Red gave me.
Good book, yeah.
And Red is mentioned in it, actually.
Vicariously, I think Red at one point found an old box of books in an old lady's house that he bought for eight dollars or something, and it was filled with first edition Hemingway's and stuff that she had had in her attic for years and years.
I love to collect.
And so I read Robert Wilson and thought, okay, who do you collect?
If you're a collector, define what you do.
But since my education, formally, had been rather uneventful, I didn't have a big backlog of knowledge of classical literature, except as an actor, the playwrights of ancient times in the 17th and 18th century, I really wasn't familiar with the literature that much, except that which I read out of my own curiosity.
But as a kid, I'd always read modern books.
I was always an avid reader, but I usually kept up with what was going on right then and there, particularly in the late 50s and early 60s,
Hubert Selby was writing, and William Burroughs, and that whole era started, the whole B generation started, was really, I think, when I started reading seriously.
Before that, it was mostly poetry, T.S.
Eliot, Robinson Jeffers, Randall Carroll, Majorelle, I guess.
Let me do this for you.
Milk or sugar?
No.
Smells.
I became aware of Ross Sipper.
He started hanging out with Joe the Proviner occasionally.
Joe the pro and the alcoholic.
I just started very nitpicking
Buying books that I had loved.
Buying a first edition of A Clockwork Orange.
Buying a first edition of The Collector by John Fowles.
The black and the red, the two variant.
Were you buying titles, authors, or both?
I guess at the time I was buying titles, but authors who I had read.
I didn't start buying other Burgess books until I thought, well, I've got this.
Why not buy a couple of other books of his that I had read?
Older, I mean, newer books, actually, Earthly Powers and Napoleon Symphonies.
I then thought, well, if I've started this, why not try to get as a complete collection of each author as I can?
And with Beckett, I had sort of hesitated with Beckett because of the cost involved.
Much of Beckett's earlier stuff was relatively expensive.
You're talking about in the early stages of the collecting.
Right.
When you're still
what we call a struggling actor.
Yeah, and the struggling wasn't so much anymore, but at the time, I thought the idea of spending $100 or $500 on a book, you know, to justify that, I would have to really think about it.
And so when I was still, this guy is insane.
You know, I was still buying, I guess the person I spent the most money on the earliest was Bukowski, because I started finding
the very old, rare things, the little chapbooks and the little pamphlets of his that were put out in the 60s in New Orleans of the Jean Press and the very early stuff that John Martin had done with him.
And that sort of brought me off on a tangent of Black Sparrow.
I started buying other Black Sparrow writers, John Fonte because of Bukowski, and I love that writing, I love that style, that sort of, you know, man by himself.
You didn't even get into it.
I mean, you really became
it became an education too it became a wonderful education in the area of book collecting unto itself much less particular authors i mean just the education of uh getting myself familiar with how a publisher designates a first edition you know to learn the uh the points of a book and it became a wonderful uh obsession to get as conversant with it as possible so i could pick up a book and really know something about it and how early on did you did you realize how important say condition is that's
almost immediately i think the guys that i dealt with i mean they i think they uh particularly ralph sipper um i think um instilled that a great deal because ralph always and maurice neville as well i think had always martin had um emphasized condition and i and a lot of times their books were you know maybe half again as much as any other copy that i had come across in the catalog and when asked why they would say well look at the book because
Like the clockwork orange I have, the spine is perfect.
There's no fading.
The orange letters are there.
I just, not too long ago, bought a first edition of a streetcar named Desire.
I don't collect Williams, but I bought it because it was published the year I was born.
And I used to ride that streetcar when I was a kid.
So it had that.
Yeah, we started collecting Tennessee Williams when we found a perfect copy.
It was on a glass one.
It was gorgeous.
And then I have a perfect copy of a street check.
Did you just find that you came from it?
I hadn't been looking for it.
I just happened to be up at Ralph's.
Ralph had it, yeah.
Does this one have a couple of holes in the back?
He had one in his catalog for the longest time in very, very fine condition, but it has a few holes in it.
I don't think so.
I'll show it to you.
I saw that in one of the books.
It's terrific.
That's a tough dust jacket because of that purple.
Right, exactly.
And fades.
And so as I became more confident
and knowing that I was doing something that I thought that at any point quite survival instinct, I suppose, or with mercenary feelings that if I ever had to jump out of it for any particular reason, that the stuff I was buying I could turn around and sell and know that at least I wouldn't have lost any money on it, you know.
So I became a little bolder in the stuff that I would buy.
Well, did you kind of use the thought that it
Well, it's an investment as a rationalization.
Sure.
My wife slaps me down when I say that.
She says, well, all right, let me tell you something.
She said, what happens with an investment is that you get money back from it.
So go sell them and get money back from them.
If they're worth more now, fine.
If they're an investment, you put money in the bank and they give you interest.
Again, does your wife share, your wife doesn't share the passion of that?
Not the passion, no, but I think she's learned to accept it truly, and I've turned her on to a couple of authors that she loves, so I then started buying books of theirs for her.
Ann Tyler, for one, and Alice Munro, and Alan Gilchrist, I think is a Northern English writer, and my wife is from Newcastle upon Tyne in the very North of England.
And she appreciates the book, she just doesn't have that.
She has quite the passion that I do for it.
And that was a hard one to start, actually.
I was surprised at how fast those books, number one, disappeared, and how quickly they escalated in price.
If morning ever comes, for instance, I was amazed that it was a $400 or $500 book that I bought.
A clock winder.
Tin can alley life.
Tin can something.
That's the script.
If Morning Ever Comes, actually, it's not even our toughest title, as tough as it is.
I think the fourth one, for some reason, is almost impossible.
That's the last one.
I think I got it from Ralph.
I think I have them all.
I think I do have one.
So as time went on, I would just buy, you know, with a lot of, I bought a lot of Bukowski.
Every new thing that came out, I would get the most limited edition of it I could find, usually then, in the old days.
The old days, five years ago, even sort of hand painting some
on the fly leaf on the inside.
Now it's just prints, I guess, that they do.
And a situation happened that was, my wife helped orchestrate a practical joke against me for television, a series that was on television for a while, posted by Dick Clark, where they would take actors and put them in weird situations and try to surprise them.
And this fake book auction was set up for me to be part of
I fell for it.
Oh, I'd love to see that.
When was that then?
Oh, God.
Four or five years ago.
I got an invitation in the mail to a book auction.
My wife said nothing about it.
I looked at it and I thought, this might be fun.
And I just put it on my dresser.
She never pushed it or anything.
And so the Thursday came around two days before it was to happen.
I said, I think I want to go to this.
Do you care?
She said, no, I'll go with you.
At an antique store in Hollywood, Charles and Charles, it was called.
We got there, walked through the whole antique store, all very legit.
We got to this room.
My wife said, I'm going to go to the toilet, excuse me.
They were auctioning off paintings in the room while I was standing there watching them.
There was a table full of books.
my wife came back and i was just about to walk over to the table to examine some of the books when they started the auction so i didn't have a chance to which was their plan because the books were all from either red or ralph sipper and i noticed that and maybe several of the auctioneers now several of the people in the auction all had wireless on my wife went to the bathroom in order to get a microphone on her so the
object of the joke was for them to auction off books that they knew i owned at a fraction of their cost but i'm not stupid i started bidding on the books when they were at five dollars a book i knew was eighty dollars and when it got to 80 or 85 and if anybody a bit above that i would just stop because i figured well i'm not gonna pay any more than i know what it's worth
So they couldn't get me on that.
So what they did went to the other extreme.
Books that I knew were worth $100.
People started bidding $1,000 to $2,000 for them.
What did I think?
What was going through your money?
I had to believe a lot of it because I turned to Elizabeth and I go, what the shit?
I have no goddamn idea what they're doing.
And finally they pulled the rug from under me.
They walked over to me with a book and gave it to me.
And I looked up and then realized I saw these mirrors on the wall.
And when I really stared at them, I could see the lens behind them.
But it was great for two reasons.
Ralph gave me a book, write a couple of books, and I was still a very young pup of a collector.
So I got a couple of free titles, and Bukowski saw the broadcast and wrote me a letter and inscribed a few books to me personally, which was great.
When did Dick Clark did this?
I might see if I can get it.
I would think there's a tape of it sitting around somewhere.
What is it called?
Bloopers and Practical Jokes, I think was the name of the series.
They really were very smart.
When you really think about them, it shows you how... I used to say I could never be fooled by that because I'd see friends of mine on that show.
And I thought that was so hokey.
You get suckered all the way, though.
With books, I got suckered real easy.
It shows you when a man has greed, he'll believe anything.
You see, one of the themes I'm pursuing in this book is motivation.
What motivates the book collective.
And there are some delightful stories going back
about 180 years, and the famous hoax, and that's why I've got to get the story, because it's the famous, the Defortis Biblio hoax, remember I explained that to you?
It's Frenchman, not an 8% tape, if you're interested in this story.
Anyway, the Defortis Biblio hoax is kind of a wonderful story.
But it did appeal to the same, I mean, it was an instance, it appealed to the same instinct.
Particularly if you think there's something that
I think what you were saying, one of the things that does give a feeling in me is that, I guess number one, the rarity of it, of a particular book, particularly if it's been, I think the thing that turns me on the most is, and it usually has to be signed copies, is the fact that the author had possession of it, for a moment anyway.
You know, except those books like the late Fonte stuff that Black Sparrow did.
I mean, he would sign black flyleaves, and they would just... Sure.
Nevertheless, it's handled, and it's the first... I guess the first edition brings us closer to the creative process.
I suppose it does.
Yeah.
Because there's no explanation for why people would spend, you know, the money that they do for printed books.
It's not like it's a manuscript.
It's a printed book.
But if it's been handled, it's been signed, and that's why, inevitably,
Now, do you have any manuscript material about it?
Yes, not much.
Not much.
I mean, certainly not handwritten manuscripts.
I mean, I've got some poems by Bukowski, typewritten poems, stuff like that, but not manuscript.
Like written in longhand?
No.
Inevitably, I think the collecting with the means probably goes to manuscript.
I would think so.
I have a friend that collects Hugo and Dickens.
Well, that's a strange stuff.
Very amazing.
But he mostly confined himself to letters, I think, partially because of the finances.
Oh, it's probably... This is Nick.
Nick?
Guy grew up with me in New Orleans, and he still doesn't even get close to us spelling my name correctly.
L-A-R-O-C-A-T-E.
Oh, that's terrible.
Laro Cat.
I had one come from the other, Rick Bezos.
That's one of my works for Virgin and Charisma.
And I bought him dinner not too long ago, and he said he'd send me a little care package.
People always sending me music.
Jazz, mostly, I think is from the Virgin label.
Anyway.
When we chatted on the phone, you mentioned that you were going way back to New Orleans as a kid.
You said that your mother used to put every comic book every day.
Well, she worked at downtown New Orleans at a clothing store.
And I was an only child, and so I would get home from school.
We lived with my grandparents.
And I would do my homework and stuff.
She'd be home about 6.
At about 5.30, I'd go outside and wait for her on the step to come home on the bus and walk down the block.
And she always bought me two comic books.
And it was like Christmas every day to me, the idea of having these books to be able to then go into my room.
I go in the backyard of my house and sit and get lost in Superman or Thor, the Thunder God, or whoever it was.
There was something so nurturing about those comic books that I wondered, you know, I think it had something to do with my pleasure in holding and possessing books today.
When there's lots of books around me, I just feel safe.
I feel secure.
I feel...
in the company of others, for some reason, even when I'm sitting in my study all alone.
There's just something about having the books around.
And I read most of the stuff that I buy.
I mean, I read all the stuff that I buy eventually.
And these editions?
Yes, usually.
I mean, I'll fall asleep with a sign, limited Beckett in my lap.
That's very courageous.
Well, most of the stuff, unfortunately, particularly with Beckett, it's kind of hard to find some of it in any other way.
The real modern office that I buy, I usually don't buy trade editions anymore unless I'll go to the store and buy the new Richard Ford that comes out of the new Barry Hanna just to have that trade edition, and that's usually what I'll read.
But a lot of it is the only form that I own it in, so if I want to read it, I have to read it down.
There just wouldn't be room for having it all.
I'm going to have paperback copies of everything in order to be able to... A question, and I guess you've kind of...
partially answered it, is how do you enjoy your collection?
For so many collectors, it's really the hunt and it's the acquisition.
It's almost like chasing a woman for many people.
Once a conquest is made, they lose.
I must say that I'm not into the hunt, I don't suppose very much.
The most I've ever hunted for a book was not for me, but for a friend.
A friend of mine was who I owed a lot to my success.
Loved
Harper Lee and thought that To Kill a Mockingbird was one of the best books he'd ever read in his life.
And so I hunted for about four or five months to find the first edition of that.
I could find it on corrected proof, but I couldn't find the first trade.
And finally did, and bought it for him.
That's also got a photograph by Tennessee Williams on the desk jacket.
And I think it might even have Truman Capote might have been.
That's nice.
There were cousins.
But there's even a small rumor around that he was living with Harper Lee when she wrote it, and that some of it's him.
But what's really great about collecting Harper Lee is that you have that and you have the whole oeuvre.
That's exactly right.
Right.
And it's like Billy Brammer, and I've got three copies of The Gay Place.
So I'm just absolutely complete.
A lot of Mitchell's, you know, one author, one book author.
But anyway, you enjoy them by, it's more than... Oh, yeah, I enjoy... The possession is really the first step.
Yeah, for me it is.
It's the...
The enjoyment of the work, number one, if it's a great novel.
There's a lot of Anthony Burgess that I don't necessarily enjoy reading as much as I do others of his, but the idea of watching a man's work over years and years and years is really what part of the experience is for me.
I guess being able to look at, particularly with limited books,
The production, the book itself, is really very enthralling to me, though.
It's interesting to me that the first author you really collected is Beckett.
And it is interesting because, as an actor, you were taking the product of his creative imagination, and you were giving life to it on the stage.
And the next step, this is just coming to me now, so it's formulated in a different way.
You were taking his creative work and giving it life, and maybe the next step was to own the first edition.
It's interesting to me that this would be the first writer that you would collect.
Well, I suppose that he straddled a line between playwright and author so incredibly for me that it was both the actor and the reader in me, collecting him.
I don't collect many playwrights.
i don't find myself a lucky player as well harold pinter i have a lot of first editions but it's interesting to me that you do not collect tennessee women's being from new orleans and where he did write wonderful short stories poetry yeah i guess that deep down i was never really a great fan of tennessee wings i suppose i mean because it was so close to who i was that i didn't aware i was in many ways that i didn't mean to who you were i mean well just being a southerner being you know part of that whole sort of uh
elegant decay of the South.
It didn't spur my imagination as much as this strange man walking around changing pebbles from one pocket to another in an Irish landscape.
Would you describe yourself as an obsessive kind of person?
Absolutely.
And I guess this is one really productive way to channel... I hope it is.
I find that it too puts strains on... I think any obsessive behavior will put a strain on relationships.
And I think, you know, when books upon books upon books arrive at this house sometimes, there's a strain put on the relationship.
But you said that you aren't really, the hunt doesn't turn you on.
I mean, it doesn't really excite you.
I don't think.
I mean, I've not had, I guess maybe also I've not had anything I've wanted so badly and couldn't find.
And I've gone out, really gone out to get it.
You know, like I told Ralph, I said, listen, I need a copy of Fizzles, I mean, with Jasper Johns, you know, back in Jasper Johns' books.
planes.
Looking for it, it's possible because I don't want to have to come up with a tab for it when I finally do find it.
It is daunting at some point where you've been looking for something.
And let's say it's the one title that you don't have, and all of a sudden somebody has it and it's, you know, $1,500.
You have to make the decision, well, I needed to fill out the author and, you know, you buy it.
In fact, Ralph has a book for me to
I have all of Arthur Miller except the first title, and they just wrote me a note.
We have a gorgeous copy of this book, and it's X amount of dollars.
I said, well, I'll pick it up when I go.
We're going up there Wednesday.
Don't go ahead.
Of course, I've seen it all upstairs, and I'm really... No, a lot of the books in my room come from his show.
I have to say that as far as quality goes, there's nobody that can touch Professor McBride for the quality of the book that he sells.
Yeah, he definitely has high standards.
There's one collector that I interviewed, a guy in New York, who says that he used to be a very heavy gambler.
He used to really play at the Baccarat cables and the craft cables.
And when he became really active as a book collector, he also collects furniture in our years, two rooms at the Metropolitan Museum of Art named for him, that he
He lost all interest, and he said he'd never been back to a casino.
He has been.
But going to the auction, he said, gives me that kick.
He was flying at auction.
And the excitement, I mean, I saw him spend $2 million for the four printed Shakespeare.
He got the guidance.
This is Richard Manny in New York.
And, you know, that takes a modicum of courage, I would say.
And they were going up for $50,000 props.
The advances were...
yeah it's pretty good for printed books we're not talking about anything manuscript here and they weren't even the original bindings but they wonderful copies and he wanted them and it is that you know it is that i mean i'm not in that kind of league at all i don't know if i'd ever i don't know if i'd ever i guess i would i guess i would come in if i ever got really really situated to where there was
I think with that kind of collecting, though, there comes a point where unless you're fabulously wealthy, where you've got to look at turnover.
At some point, you've got to look at being able to get some of that money back and use it again to buy something else, unless you're like H. Bradley Martin, and this fellow seems like he may have unlimited sources.
In that case, I'm sure I would... I don't know if I would expand my area, though, because I don't...
modern books unless i started just starting to this guy after a lot of the very rare inscribed folders that are floating out there right now oh this maureen neville you mentioned supposedly has a hemingway collection that is uh awesome i've never seen it are you familiar with with the collection though yeah there's a very interesting story about how he became a collective i mean he walked in and this is the story i've heard he walked into joseph the provider i mean how he became a dealer uh well
As I understand, it had this collection, this wonderful collection of Feminine's stuff.
And the guy says, how much?
And he quoted him a price.
I said, well, how much if I'm a dealer?
He quoted him another price.
He said, fine, I'm a dealer.
And bought it, and in fact, became a dealer.
This is the story.
I heard the story, but I didn't hear it attributed to Joe the Pro.
I thought it was a story in Los Angeles that that occurred, either heritage or one of the old.
My understanding now,
is that it was well.
But again, I've got a second thread at hand.
And the story's made around, so it's not like I'm...
say anything?
Oh, no, no, the story has it definitely.
I've read the story.
It was in maybe a year or so ago.
There was a story of Maury in LA Magazine or someplace.
Is it always heritage?
Well, you know, it seems to me it wasn't Ralph.
It seems to me I'd have remembered.
I would definitely know if it was Ralph, but I may be totally wrong on that.
It's a wonderful story.
Do you have any questions, Card?
She's
extremely helpful.
How about any other collectors?
Is this the kind of endeavor that many actors do?
Not that I know of.
Are you kind of like a long-ranger out here, do you think?
No, I don't think I am.
No, because certainly there's... MacDonald Carey was a very big collector for many, many years, the actor.
Had great big collections of, I think, Hemingway and Miller and Steinbeck and a lot of poetry.
I, by the fact, recently was contacted by a fellow, a producer-actor in town, a fellow named Tony Bill, who produced The Sting and was a major producer in this town.
And he just wanted to get together because he's bought books all of his life and didn't know he was a collector.
But supposedly has, like, the best collection on pre-1930 aviation.
And that and something else, airplanes and
Aviation and something else.
I don't remember the other subject.
But we got together for lunch and we just kind of talked about it.
Because he had never really talked to any other collectors.
He had just been sort of going about his way buying these books around the country.
But he's an obsessive dude, too.
So it definitely lends to an obsessive personality.
Particularly with the willingness to sit and peruse endless catalogs.
And enjoy them.
Yeah, I love them.
I love reading catalogs.
I love them.
And I keep every one of them, too, which my wife cannot understand.
So you didn't buy anything from it.
Why are you keeping the catalog?
We have crazy money now.
They're all over the place.
I love auction catalogs.
This is a new collection of mine since I started the research for this book.
It's buying really scarce, like the whole catalog from 1911, 1911.
Jerome Kern was a tremendous collector.
It had his sale in 1929, basically marked the end of the golden age of American collectors, the great crash came, but through the catalog.
I just got the Streeter.
I got a Brantley Martin Streeter catalog, and I bought three lots of the Brantley Martin.
Oh, you did?
Yeah.
The American or the English?
The American.
I bought the Streeter catalog, seven volumes, and it was BAL, which you must get.
Of course, you're modern, so you really wouldn't need BAL.
You know, the bibliography of American literature, Jacob Blank, but it's up to 18, so you really collect after that, so it wouldn't help.
The oldest author, I guess, is Knut Hamsun, you know, and just the late stuff.
So you don't really restrict yourself to American, either, obviously, starting with Beckett.
I guess it's mostly American and British, I guess it's mostly, though.
Partially, I suppose, because I don't speak a foreign language, and the idea of having just the first American of something, if it were South American or French.
I keep having this goal to learn, at some point before I die, how to at least read French so I can read Beckett and the original, many of them.
William Blake learned tagging just so he could illustrate the Divine Comedy.
He taught himself the tagging so he could read it in the original.
so he could do those wonderful illustrations.
They were wonderful.
I'm collecting dozens of these great little stories.
We'll use them in the ... Can we see some of your things?
Cypress and Wood.
This is from the Monterey Cypress.
This granite is from the quarry where the ...
Why didn't he pull the stone to actually build his house from?
There's just this little limited that was done of, and it's kind of great shakes as far as the contents so much.
Gratits, I think.
But it's very nice to have my paper.
A fellow we're interviewing Thursday, Sanford Burger, lives right next to the public objective site.
Sculpture for the most part, yeah.
Now, did this case, did you have that made?
Oh, no, this is how it was.
Oh, that's how it was.
And what was the limitation of it?
A hundred of them?
See, you've got the giant limitation.
This is part of the Beckett collection, actually.
There were some paintings in the Beckett collection that I thought it was.
Was it paintings or lithos?
No paintings, original paintings.
Oh, this is wonderful.
Ah, I feel it.
It seems minuscule to me.
I had the, you know, so much of the stuff that I buy is little stuff and hard to stand up, so I had to come to make these library doors.
That's wonderful.
What is the wood?
Cherry.
Yes.
That's great.
Yeah, there's the street car.
And they handled this.
This is how the scholars were.
How is it right?
That's how it was.
Well, I saw it there.
This is a guy that's great.
Yeah, you guys told the other one.
So, you know, there's a catalog for them all this time.
That's why I'm hiding it behind here, so it doesn't get the sun.
Fortunately, this room doesn't get much sunlight anyway.
How did you decide which ones to put behind glass?
We're going through the same debate right now.
I think the ones that, well, cost-wise, I'm the one.
Usually the ones behind the glass would cost more, just for keeping them away from little pens.
And the stuff that I wanted to
that was a little more fragile.
You know, like the Uncorrected Proof of Confederacy of Dunces, I didn't want it somewhere where it could just be pulled out because of the covers.
That's nice.
The advanced reading copy of The, with the gateway.
Do you collect Walker Percy?
No, you must collect Walker Percy.
No, I don't.
I've never been a great fan of Walker Percy, unfortunately.
I thought he was the greatest living American author myself.
That's pretty nice.
It's anti-directed proof.
Yes.
Well, actually, I don't think that really exists.
I think basically what it is, is it's really considered an advanced reading copy.
May I?
And I can tell you.
I should say.
Particularly since there's a little letter, too.
Let's see if there's any pagination.
Yeah, there is pagination.
Does it have the copyright?
You learn a lot about bibliography, don't you, when you recover collecting.
John, some of these boxes, I've got to get more boxes to make for some of them, actually.
John Fowles, I gather, is a... Yes, that's the, here's a, this is an old one now, this is my copy of the Clockwork.
That's wonderful.
I bought that from Ralph many years ago.
Boy, Ralph has wonderful books.
Yeah.
I bought this from him.
So really, you don't have that much sentimentality for New Orleans.
I mean, if you don't collect Tennessee Williams and you don't collect Walker Prissy, do you collect Eudora Wealthy from Mississippi?
No.
No, I have some Eudora, but mostly I bought Eudora that was connected to Ann Tyler.
They're stuck together.
character that's a New Orleanian comp.
That's the first there.
That's the becket I bought when I did the play.
This is the set.
Yes.
Oh, that's a very nice set.
It really is.
The jackets are nice and bright.
Yes.
I've kept them in good shape.
Did they have the plastic on them or did you put that on?
Do you have that?
Do you do that yourself?
I do the broad art.
Yeah, I have a lot of the broad art.
I have a big roll of it.
I just got this from the end of the record of the
Tell me about, are you really about Burgess?
Have you ever met him?
No.
I did an interview with him.
I thought about one day maybe just for the hell of a taking his 99 and making it a goal, you know, because I've got number 100 already, so I figured.
Well, I bet you have quite a few of them.
Probably just offhandedly, I would say you're probably right.
Because it really is a decidedly 20th century list, isn't it?
I think it is.
Anything about that could I get.
So this is the illustrated way to get down this.
Beautiful stuff.
What's your number one prized possession?
I don't know.
I don't know them all.
They're like all children, you know?
Do you look at them in that?
I don't mean to put words in there.
No, I do.
I do.
I see if they're standing up all right.
I feel a little need to be touched occasionally.
Do you take them out and...?
All the time.
Yeah.
This is a nice copy.
I mean, it's just your first trade of... Yep.
That's the one I read in college, I think.
...inscribed by Beckett.
George Revers.
George?
Can you read it for me?
Yeah, with love and gratitude from his old friend, New York City.
Can't read the rest of it, Sam.
August, maybe?
Something down below.
Yeah, that's the ownership.
George Riefery was an old comrade and publisher.
He loomed large in his biography than when I read this.
Do you feel you know Beckett?
I know his work.
I don't know.
You seem to have a passion for his stuff.
I do.
You know, if I were a writer,
Which I am not.
I would think the ideal thing to do right now is if you sit down and write a one-man show of Beckett quickly and get Peter O'Toole to play it.
Would you like to play it?
No, I couldn't play Beckett.
What do you mean you couldn't?
You probably know his works better than anyone.
I'm just young, number one.
To do his own.
To do him, though, Beckett sitting down and talking to an audience for an hour, I think would be absolutely phenomenal.
Just a copy of... He's old Jim Thomas.
Oh, he's really hot, isn't he?
This is a little copy of Footfalls by Beckett, but this is the copy he used while he directed the play, and his holograph corrections to the text, or how he changed, how many footsteps, which direction to go.
You get that in this country?
Yes.
The story that I'm talking about story, Beckett was directing Billy Whitewell in a play of his called Not I, which is this
Short little piece, about 18 minutes long.
And the only thing you see on the stage is a woman's mouth, the whole play.
She's just jabbering, really, really jabbering.
And she couldn't memorize a lot of the words.
And he told the stage about it.
He said, I'm going to give her a bit of help.
So he sat down and on the three-fold blank sheets of paper wrote this story about this woman.
And he said, read this to her.
this white helper.
So this guy has this short story written by Samuel Beckett in his own hand.
And he just pulled it up and put the copy of his book and brought home.
He never thought about it until recently.
He thought, I've got a manuscript.
Samuel Beckett manuscript.
And most of those are in, you know, Texas.
Where we've been.
We spent five days in Texas.
Did you?
And this is the, I have two copies of it, the signed edition of the collected.
Do you have the new collection, the Beckett stuff, on hand?
The Beckett stuff, there's some in here, like some of Nose Knife in here, our examination.
Most of this entire catalog is Beckett.
All of that.
From that collection?
Yes, all of this.
Is there anything by Beckett that you don't have that you know of?
As far as original first edition stuff, no.
is a really nice inscribed first of Endgame.
Which you'd really like.
Yes, that I would like.
And Ralph supposedly... That's kind of on your head list.
And the... So to say that there really isn't anything that you have a burning... No, that I do.
I do have a... I think I have a signed edition, a signed copy of Endgame.
But you want an inscribed one, which would be nice.
Right, because this is just the acting edition that I have somewhere.
I'm not even... It's not even really the first.
Now, you just acquired this collection?
But two or three months before Beckett died.
Oh, well, that's, but what was in the, what did you have in these shelves prior to that?
Nothing, because we just moved back into this house.
Oh, I see.
So this library has just been built.
Because that's a problem I have.
I get something I really love, and I have to move something else.
All of this is Beckett also.
That's mostly the criticism, most of the criticism on him.
And the other stuff, most of this is not even really,
this is just my books from the old days you know except the the carol pincher in here and the plays out that i've done in my time stuff is for reading and those guys this is all the buchowski a lot of the buchowskis i like the way black sparrow makes books i think they do nice nice work um it's just one of one of a hundred is wilson's book on book collecting yes none of them but i love
Is this one, the first book of the Alan Ahern?
The book of first books, do you think of that?
Yeah, that just recently came out.
The one that just came out from Putnam?
This is pretty old.
Okay, yeah, he just did another one from Putnam.
Right, but it's on book collecting as a whole, right?
Not just first books.
That's correct, but he also has a section there on a 10 or 15,000.
And this is inscribed to Bob Wilson.
That's nice, yeah.
He's always at all the shows, Alan Ahern.
I didn't have a boat on them.
Yeah.
I would say, yeah, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven.
These are gorgeous shelves, by the way.
One, two, three, four.
I'm just trying to, I'd say 2,000 books in here, maybe.
I would say that's pretty close.
Some of these, some of these shelves, some of these shelves are doubled.
Every one of them.
She doesn't write about the South as much as,
What do you think of her?
I like her because she's an artist, don't you think?
Yes, but she's a New Orleanian lady, and I've got a... Yeah, but you're inconsistent on that.
You already told me you don't collect... Well, the thing is, Walker Percy is in New Orleans.
Well, he's Covington.
He's Covington.
Tennessee Williams wasn't really New Orleans either, wasn't he?
I mean, like Truman Capote wasn't really.
A lot of people had claimed to be New Orleans.
But I mean, they certainly affected a love and a knowledge and a passion for the place, I guess.
Without a doubt.
But I don't want to care.
It's just fun talking.
But I love Walker Press.
Have you read this?
This is John Goodman.
This is John Locke.
Oh, man.
Books seem to me to be pestilent things and infect all their trade in them.
Oh, this is very good.
Ellipse was something very perverse and brutal, period.
It's my type of
printers, binders, sellers, and ampersand.
Others that make a trade and gain out of them have universal ease, so are they turn in a corruption of mind that they have a way of dealing peculiar to themselves and not conformed to the good of society.
This is the next one.
And a general fairness which cements mankind.
John Locke, 1632, 1904.
That's very nice.
Oh, that's very nice.
That's lovely.
I also have another copy of this printed on an illustration by Edward Gorey.
of a man standing next to a cliff with a book and right at the frame of these two feet going over the place.
Have you seen the Cyril pictures, Slightly Foxed But Still Desirable?
Oh, that's great.
Ask Ralph about it.
It's not published in this country yet, but they've been selling it at the book for you.
It's a series of drawings, but representing the book trade with phrases like Slightly Foxed But Still Desirable.
So there's a woman on that.
She's slightly gross, but still desirable, you know.
And there'd be 20 or 30 of these.
And it's a great book that you can... I found one of the books.
This is the first thing that I think it was published separately in the horoscope, the poem he wrote for the competition in the magazine.
There were 300 copies of the book.
He won 10 pounds for writing it.
That's great.
What was the year on this?
30... It's a gorgeous ship.
Little fox.
Can you treat that?
I suppose you could.
You might want to at some point, because you can stop the fox.
Really?
I'm not sure.
30, that's M-H-O-R-O-S-C-O-P-E, Samuel Beckett.
Question 30.
And it says, this poem is awarded the 10-pound prize for the best poem on time in the competition judged by Richard Eldridge and Lindsay Kennard.
at the Hours Press and is published in addition.
A hundred signed copies, that's wonderful.
That's five, that's pence, right?
I suppose it is.
More.
Measurably more than that today, I think.
Yes.
Well, the way inflation is enough.
Do you enjoy this?
Do you get a chance to show your books to many people?
Yeah, I mean, people come over and some people go, oh, nice.
So what do you got for a drink?
A lot of people don't get it.
You know, unless I show them something that they find interesting, like if friends come over who are of my generation as far as music is concerned, I show them this, the songs by George Harrison.
Oh, indeed, sure.
With the limited disc, compact disc in it.
Okay, I've seen such a thing.
And beautiful, beautifully illustrated and printed, signed by Harrison.
You know, they get impressed by stuff like that.
Yeah.
Just like a fold-out in the middle of it.
Interesting, huh?
I mean, it's high-tech.
It's a high-tech book.
Yeah, it's a beautiful book, though.
I mean, when you look at that, just the way it's made, it's... Well, there's a keyboard.
There's a keyboard on the back.
Where was this done?
West Coast?
I wonder.
There's this beautiful picture of this guitar.
Go to the next clip.
Are those lithographs?
They must be.
They look like, well, I can see from here.
It's lithographs, yeah.
It's not off-site printing.
Beautiful.
You don't have any illustrated books or anything, I gather, as a... As a genre suit, no.
This looks like an Emmy Award over here.
Is that what that is?
Uh, yes.
Congratulations.
What?
Oh, there are four Emmys.
Let the record show.
Not to mention fifth place in the Bass Tournament at the, uh, Port of Raggedy Tournament in Tennessee.
Fifth place.
Between two Emmys, Porter Wagner, W-A-G-O-N-E-R, Celebrity Pro-Am Best, January 5th place, 1988.
This is great.
I know, a little vellius, a little Art Crumb.
I like his painting.
I like his humor in the 60s.
Those originals of his by Jeffrey Weinberg.
was making a set of t-shirts called Meet the Beats.
One of Allen Ginsberg, one of William Barrows, one of Jack Kerouac, and one of Bukowski.
And that was the image he used on the t-shirt of Bukowski.
Bukowski supposedly, the story goes that he got, he was irritated by the shot because it made him look too clean, too neat.
This is from the wedding, looks like around the wedding gown.
And so Krug then did this to put on the t-shirt, and Bukowski thought it made it look a little too raunchy, so they actually never produced the t-shirt.
What attracted you to Bukowski's work, I wonder?
Well, I was drinking at the time myself, and just that, again, that first-person voyage that he goes through, I found at the time very... I described him once as a man who lives under the belly of life, but still has the strength to push one hand out and type with it.
And I identified with him at the time.
I was drinking very, very heavily in 1980 when I found him, and thought
That's not a bad way to go.
If you've got to go to be able to live in this pain, but still be able to somehow communicate, it seems like the appropriate action.
I can never do that, but that's why I stopped drinking.
We haven't discussed that at all, and I don't necessarily believe it has a place and a discussion about book collections.
This is some more of a part of the Becker collection.
It's just paintings where they set in Seattle.
That's wonderful.
Mostly from photographs in books that I have come across.
Did you ever correspond with him?
No.
I once started writing a letter to him and tore it up, and I thought, how silly.
This is a rather rare Robertson-Juckers poem, a homage to his dog, when his dog died.
These are three
What's the motif over here?
You know, I would think that those are probably gauch and beautiful.
Maybe tempura.
I'm not that familiar with paint.
The true collector, you have them on your shelf, but you don't have them on the wall.
No.
Interesting.
Well, there's only so much wall space.
Yeah, but you enjoy them.
I mean, the collector of art puts them on the wall for other people.
The book collector, I think, has satisfaction.
You don't have to show them to other people.
That's true.
It's interesting.
You took the pictures off the top shelf to show us.
But, I mean, that's something that you see for collectors.
And look at that.
I can't even pronounce that.
Burmicide, I think.
Burmicide.
It's just a wonderful poem of his dog saying goodbye to them, I suppose.
It's relatively rare.
I just came across it.
30 copies of it printed.
Nice.
It's all stuff like that that makes it worthwhile.
We're not going to take up too much of your time.
You did mention, and I didn't bring it up at all, but you did mention the drinking.
Is this any kind of a substitute, you think, for you?
No, no, no.
No substitute for drinking is not drinking.
And this frame was made for me by a prisoner, made out of camel cigarettes.
We have Mr. Beckett over here once again.
But I keep this to remind you where I've been and where I could go very easily.
Yeah, the drinking is just, you know, that's what this was.
I'm an alcoholic and there's only two ways for an alcoholic to go whether to drink or not.
This is how one night I decided not to drink.
But this is, as you said, a reminder or?
Yeah, just a reminder of, you know, as many times I sat on the bus bench like that hoping that something would come along to take me away.
I keep it next to the Emmys, too, just to remind me not to get too self-important about any kind of achievement.
When I look around this room, I can think, boy, this guy must be pretty important.
Well, he is, actually.
I really, and it sounds like false modesty, but I really try to take no credit whatsoever.
I show up and try to just take care of my responsibilities and hope that whatever happens is pleasant, but I can't say I did it.
because it just doesn't mean anything when I say that to myself.
It's always wonderful, but so much of it is luck.
Well, as Hemingway said, if I can call Hemingway, Hemingway was asked what it takes to be a great writer, and he said, well, there's no substitute for hard work.
He said, you have to work, work, work.
Second, unfortunately, is talent.
And, well, luck,
hard work i'm sure has played a part i think that you still have to have the talent yeah that's i suppose in some ways true that is true but i get the i get the gamma rays you know they hit me uh that's true and that's one of my criticisms of the binecke library at yale which is absolutely extraordinary if you've ever seen it it's a calm
of 500,000 books going up five stories in the middle, surrounded by glass.
Really?
But it's wonderful.
It's gorgeous.
Tell me a little bit about life after life.
If God be kind, I will for a year maybe just sit here and swap spirit with my kids and my wife and maybe face the absolute demon of sitting down with my own typewriter and maybe trying to get some words on paper for myself.
After that, maybe hopefully, I have some sort of life in feature films.
And at some point in the next two years or so, I have an idea for another television series that I would own and produce myself that I would start developing and hopefully find someone interested in.
Other than that, hopefully buy books and fish.
That's good to me.
My mom's not going to be making you lunch every day.
Because it's been very good, obviously financially, and very good
It was a creative decision to leave?
Well, yeah, it's, you know, I think that if I consider myself having a career as an actor, the longer one stays on the same path as an actor, particularly in a show that's been as successful as this, I think the harder and harder it becomes to pursue anything else.